Prosper Loan Data Exploration
--------------------------------------------
by Nada Mostafa


Dataset
-----------

This project about information on peer to peer loans facilitated by America’s first marketplace lending platform. There are 113,937 loans with 81 variables on each loan, including loan amount, borrower rate (or interest rate), current loan status,etc. I will summarize the characteristics of variables affect the loan and the relationships between multiple variables using summary statistics and different data visualizations. I am using the data from the Prosper to analyze and find the pattern in the Prosper data.

Summary of Findings
--------------------------------

I did not perform any transformation  more than checking duplicate and remove outlier of income .I did some investigation distribution.The Borrower intrest rate cost of a loan (in %) is main factor affect most characteristics.we can see that Borrower Rate was highest for not employed.BorrowRate increase slowly till 2005-2006 and then decreased between 2006-2007 and then increased again in 2007-2011, in 2011 reach the peak point and then started to decrease till 2014.I found a local peak between 2005 and 2006 but with few data point within that time period. Thus the outlier shown in the plot may be the reason for driven the line up.The category starts increase in year 2011 and inreased the most between 2011 and 2012 and that describe why the Borrower rate-Year increase between that 2 points signifcantly.The investigation of catagory with years and borrower rate indicate that 2011 the most grown year for all categories expect for 0,4,5,9 and 10, Category 0 most grown at 2012 and 2014. Category 4 most grown at 2007 and 2009. Category 5 most grown at 2007 and 2010. Category 9 most grown at 2014. Category 10 most grown at 2012 and 2013.The lines for each catagory are similar with the mean plot except one huge jump 2005 and 2006 years for category zero.Borrower rate  decrease as we go from (1)HR- to (7)AA with respect to prosper rating.ProsperRating-Employment status shows a very high difference between employees then the full time jobs.Loan status with stated monthly income the most lower one is the cancelled with average income near 2500 ,most completed loans little less 5000 income ,current loans near 5000 income.most frequent when employment status is employed, and completed loan status is most frequent when employment status is full-time.It's Significantly clear that the Borrower rate increased when a person is non homeowner.the interest rate for homeowners are generally lower than non-homeowners. Homeowners usually have lower risk loans its a very popular reason since bank can use their house as collateral if they didnt pay on time.

Key Insights for Presentation
-------------------------------------------

What factor affect the prosper loan? we can say BorrowRate have most effect.what the  other characteristics influence that factor? prosper rating also have a strong relation with BorrowRate (Borrower rate  decrease as we go from (1)HR- to (7)AA with respect to prosper rating) and many other factors.How category could make a difference? catagory with years and borrower rate indicate that 2011 the most grown year for all categories expect for 0,4,5,9 and 10, Category 0 most grown at 2012 and 2014. Category 4 most grown at 2007 and 2009. Category 5 most grown at 2007 and 2010. Category 9 most grown at 2014. Category 10 most grown at 2012 and 2013.The lines for each catagory are similar with the mean plot except one huge jump 2005 and 2006 years for category zero. Is month income,employment status and loan amount affect loan status? Loan status with loan original amount the plot show a very compact with 0 value for cancel the most of completed one with average loan less than 10000 mean the completed loan is a low value amount most of time and the current loans differ slightly between less than 10000 and with average 10000 and with average between 10 and 20 thousands.Loan status with stated monthly income the most lower one is the cancelled with average income near 2500 ,most completed loans little less 5000 income ,current loans near 5000 income, default and chargedoff all most the same.Is having a home make it easy to take a loan ? why?It's make Significantly difference that the Borrower rate increased when a person is non homeowner.the interest rate for homeowners are generally lower than non-homeowners. Homeowners usually have lower risk loans its a very popular reason since bank can use their house as collateral if they didnt pay on time.
